We analysis the student submission data we collected from our OJ system. The total number of submission is 507. And we selected the following metrics: Success rate, Error analysis and Difficulty level to analysis these submission. 


Success rate: This measures the percentage of students who received a correct answer for their submissions. We use the following equation to calculate this rate: 4. Success rate = (Number of correct submissions) / (Total number of submissions) (Please convert to Latex format) 

The result shows in Fig.1. As you can see from this figure, the avarage success rate for contest 1 and contest 2 are below 10%, this is due to the fact the student are not quite familar with this OJ system, and therefore need to take several fail trials to get familar with this system. It could also becuase the students are not familar with the contest rules, espically the time penalty that we used (we implement the classic ACM/ICPC rules for our OJ system). Before the thrid contest, we write down the clear contest rules, and mententioned that each rejected submissions add 20 mins penalty time. And then the successful rate doubled (> 20%) for the third contest. Note the success rate is also connect to the difficulty level of each contest, but we try to make each contest has the same level of difficulity. The difficult level of each question will be analysis in the following section. 

Error analysis: This measures the types of errors that students made in their submissions, such as wrong answers, compilation errors, and runtime errors.Error analysis = (Number of submissions with a specific error type) / (Total number of submissions)

As shown in Figure.2 the most common error that we found in student's submission is "Compile Error", which is 46.15% in our data. This error is cause by either syntax error in their code or some logical error. This is due to the fact that our contest are facing to less-experience student, so therefore they're facing more compile error when submit their solution. The second common error is the "wrong answer", which is 29.98% of all the submissions, this error means that student code is compileable, however, it may not be able to generate the correct result. Often time we see that student's submission is able to pass some test cases, but fails for some edges cases. The third common error is "runtime error", which is 9.27%. This error usually means the student code takes too much time to execute or use more resources than allowed. In our entry-level contest questions, this error usually means the student's code contains infinity loop or some logical errors. 


Success rate for each question: 

Success rate for a problem = (# of correct submissions for a problem) / (total # of submissions for that problem)

We use the succes rate for each problem to demonstrate the difficulty level of each problem. Note that "Phone number" and "Team number" are from contest 1 and "Word Composition" and "Excel Column Number" and "Maximize Sum of Array" are from contest 2, and "Fudging Finances", "Passcode" and "Roman Numeral" are from contest 3. and As you can see from Figure.3, the "Execel Column Number" question has the largest success rate which is over 65\%. This quesiton asks student to translate column title as it appears in an Excel sheet to its corresponding column number. The one receives that least success rate is "word composition" which the success rate is less than 5\%. We found that both questions are from our second programing contest, and the word composition is the first question. Therefore, many student trying to solve the first (hard) question and end up don't have enough time to solve the relative easy quesiton. So prevent such things happend again, in next programming contest, we plan to set the easiest question as the first question, so stduent can gaining confident and ready for more challenging questions.  